I will try to list several misconception that plague the understanding
of people so as to how money works. They are based mainly on
unconscious cultural believes, so they are very hard to "undo":

1. Because individualism is the pervasive cultural norm, money/credit
issuing must be done mainly by individuals (like in Ripple). This is
wrong. We are social animals and the most reliable issuers of
money/credit are big organizations which have large social support.
Luckily, technically it does not matter much -- the same software
mostly works both for individuals and organizations.

2. Because we mostly live in a mono-currency economy, we believe that
this is economically the most efficient way, but the truth is exactly
the opposite. I would expect many Bitcoin enthusiasts and gold bugs to
be in this camp. The mono-currency basically represents the game that
the dominant power groups in the society have decided to play to get
richer, and richer. Buy they do this mostly on the expense of others.
Schemes like Bitcoin, the US Dollar, the Euro, the gold market, tend
to economically stifle everybody outside the "ring of power", and they
inevitably collapse when the power-groups shift their attention to
other, "better" games.

3. Because banks do not want people to know how banking works, people
believe that the money they have in the bank are issued by the central
bank of the state, and therefore, all money in banks are the same
money. No! Every bank issues its own money (that is: their own digital
currency), which is pegged to a currency called "bank reserves", which
is issued by the central bank, which is controlled by the dominant
elite. It seems that misconception is the source of the confusion
about the accounts that different nodes in Ripple maintain -- they
really are different currencies, pegged to one well-known currency.
The illusion that these different currencies really are the same
currency holds only as long as exchanges between those currencies are
easy and mostly free (that is: the multi-hop payments work reliably).
Obviously this is a vicious cycle -- once the trust is gone,
everything collapses.

4. Because in the west people had 200 years of more or less constant
financial expansion and economic growth, we believe that monetary
systems are stable. This is not true. Unless you were part of the
western financial empire, in almost every country, on average, every
30-70 years the monetary system collapses, and everything starts from
scratch.

My point is that monetary systems are really hard to understand!
Everybody, including me, started their journey into this being
completely naive. CMB was an experiment from which I have learned a
lot. I guess Ryan has learned a lot from working on Ripple too. I am
sure you will also.


---------------------

From what I have read about Ledger Loops, it is basically the same
concept that Circular Multilateral Barter (and Swaptacular) use.
Ledger Loops insists on being decentralized, and this is a good thing,
but the technical difficulties of implementing a decentralized
solution are big, and make such a solution impractical in the
beginning. Once the concept is proven in practice, maybe solving these
difficulties will be feasible.

In my experience, when people talk about multi-hop transactions, they
think  either about payments, or circular clearing of debts. I believe
this is a huge oversight.

I believe having decentralized payments and decentralized circular
clearing of debts would be good things, but they are not *the
important thing*. And the important thing (the elephant in the rum) is
*the mechanism of money issuing*. Nobody cares if payments and debt
clearings are decentralized, if the mechanism of money issuing is
inefficient (that is: centralized, unjust, or unreliable).

The goal of Swaptacular is to use circular trades (loops) to allow
money to be issued in a decentralized network. A dumbed down picture
of this would be: money is created in virtual loops, and gets spent in
the real economy. The important thing to notice is that this scheme is
exactly the opposite of debt clearing.

The other important thing to notice is that the only activity that
*must be* decentralized is the process by which "the network" issues
money (in the form of various peoples' currencies). All other the
activities that the users in the network may participate in, like
making payments *do not need to be decentralized*. Sure, it would be
nice if they are, but this is not critical.

The only thing that is *really critical*, however, is that the *the
mechanism of money issuing* is decentralized. All engineering choices
made in Swaptacular are based on this premise. The most important
properties of Swaptacular as a system are:

1. Money issuers may setup their own servers that manage their
currencies. Thus, they may, but do not need to rely on
public/shared/cryptonized solutions.

2. Circular trades (loops) are the primary mechanism of money issuing.
Circular trades are currently performed on dedicated servers
(although, everybody can run such a server). Note however, that even
if there is only one such server operating in the whole world, this
server will still orchestrates a *decentralized process by which "the
network" issues money*.

To conclude: Making distributed programs is really hard. Therefore, we
should focus on decentralizing only the most critical aspects of the
system. The most critical aspect of every financial system is money
creation. The "Swaptaular network issues debt-based currencies by
performing circular trades (finding loops).
